Let's fast forward the development of our demo application.
There,
we now have the Crypto Portfolio application secured with
traditional username and password login.
Users can register and then log in with their credentials.
Now, you can check out my course,
Spring Framework: Securing Against Common threats,
if you're interested in how this demo application was created.
Now, let's start by adding Facebook and Google social login,
which will give the user the option of either filling in the
registration form or clicking one button and signing in
automatically with their Facebook or Google accounts.
Now, just like in the previous module,
we add the spring‑boot‑starter‑oauth2‑client‑dependency and the Google
and Facebook client IDs to our application.yml file.
Now,
this will trigger Spring Boot's OAuth2 client configuration into action as
these classes will now be in the class path; however,
because this app already has its own implementation of
the WebSecurityConfigurationAdapter,
Spring Boot will back off and not initialize its default.
Now,
the WebSecurityConfigurationAdapter uses the adapter design pattern
to basically allow you to adjust the default security implementation
to your unique security requirements.
By simply creating a class that extends the WebSecurityConfigurationAdapter,
you will have access to a number of builder objects,
which are exposed via a number of configuration methods.
You can override these methods in your implementation to get access to
the builder objects and effectively customize them.
Then when Spring Boot starts up, it will build the security accordingly.
A key one is the HttpSecurityBuilder,
which is responsible for configuring security for HTTP requests,
as the name suggests.
So in the current implementation,
for all HTTP requests to /login or /register will be
allowed without authentication,
which kind of makes sense as you first need to have access to the
registration and login page before you can get authenticated.
For all other requests, the user must be authenticated via formLogin.
Here is the path to our custom loginPage to present to an unauthenticated user.
We also want the user to be able to log out.
Now, to add OAuth,
we add the provider's registration details for Facebook and Google in
our application.yml file with the client ID in secret.
Using the HttpSecurity builder object,
we instruct Spring that we want OAuth to log in.
Nice and easy.
If we restart our application and access the page,
we get the bland social login link again.
We, however, want both the option of social login and form login,
so the previous login view was to /login,
hence, in the security config on our OAuth2 login builder,
you can see there are a lot of methods to customize things.
Let's start with the loginPage and set that to /login.
Now, this will map the login to the Thymeleaf HTML page.
And here, we just need to add two links,
which I have used Bootstrap to make them look like buttons.
The link will be to /oauth2/authorize/google and the same for Facebook,
and this will initiate the appropriate OAuth 2 Code
Grant flow to authenticate this user.
That's it.
If we refresh the app, the user can now even register and log in,
or they could sign in with one click of a button using
their Google or Facebook accounts.
If you've already signed in,
you probably might not see the login page because you
have an active session with Google.
Now, if we go through the consent process,
eventually, we get an application error.
Now,
that's because our OAuth 2 application currently just doesn't know
how to deal with OAuth 2 users as currently,
when the user registers with the site using the traditional registration pages,
a portfolio is created for them in the database,
so we need to include some sort of auto‑registration logic for users that are
accessing our application for the first time using OAuth 2. So next, let's look at how we can do that.